<br /><br />
<pre>




BANKS:  
new departure time (no. de vol: 3905) is 10.05 (earlier 10.15)

if lose madrid vision bus ticket go to their office at calle felipe iv with ref.
Albergue Juvenil Santa Cruz de Marcenado (HI)

Calle Santa Cruz de Marcenado 28,
Madrid,
Spain.

metroMetro: Arguelles (Brown Line, L4) or (Yellow Line, L3) or
(Grey Line, L6, Circular)
Tel: (0034) 91 547 4532
Fax: (0034) 91 548 1196, (0034) 91 276 7516
Information and Bookings: (0034) 91 276 7478

at night.  go to the terraces at la Plaza Dos de Mayo (coeur du quartier bohčme)
or Quartier de Lavapiés, where the filmoteca is

la Gran via, la plus belle avenue de madrid


Prado Museum has great art collection of Flaman painters including famous painting "Gardens of Eden / El Bosco", Rubens, Velasquez, Goya, El Greco

la plaza de santa ana, very animated, meeting-place full of bars and near to la puerta del sol

MUST-SEE PLACES IN MADRID
1.  Parque del Retiro.  Although Madrid is a "leafy" city as there are trees everywhere yet its park at El Retiro is a popular place of relaxation for both the madrilenos and the tourists.  You can even plan to have your lunch in one of the many restaurants along the lake here to give yourself that leisurely feeling and allow yourself to just "stand and stare" instead of rushing from one tourist spot to another.

2.  museo del prado (metro banco de espana)

3.  el palacio real (metro Opera), don't fail to visit the armaments room (?)

4.  El Rastro (metro retiro).  it is in La Latina district along the whole of Calle de la Ribera de Curtidores that you will find el rastro (metro la latina or puerta de toledo, Sunday 9-14:00), Spain's equivalent of Paris's marche aux puces at porte de clignancourt.  but it is more than that.  There is also a concentration of tapas bars so although touristy it also has much local colour as the Madrileńos make their tapas rounds on a Sunday.   But you might want to combine your visit to el rastro with a visit to the colourful Mercado de la Cebada, at Plaza de la Cebada.  There is so much to see there.  Opening hours are Mon-Fri from 9-14 and from 17:30-20:30.  It's also open on Saturdays 9:00-14:30
 
5.  Centro de Arte Reina Sofia  If you want to see Pablo Picasso's Guernica then you have to go to El Centro de Arte Reina Sofia at 52, Calle de Santa Isabel.  As the Picasso Museum in paris is closed for renovation works till 2012, the next best place to admire picasso's works is perhaps here.

6.  

7.  The Museo Thyssen-Bornemisza is just a stone's throw from CaixaForum, at number 8, so you might want to see both one after the other.  This third "must-see" museum in Madrid (after the Prado and the Centro de Arte Reina Sofia which together form the "Golden Triangle of Art") houses the works of European artists from the 14th to the 20th centuries among them Rubens, Renoir, Monet, Picasso and Kadinsky.

8. (a) For plant lovers.  Atocha railway station's indoor garden   Plant-lovers will not want to miss the indoor garden at the Atocha railway station.  There are 500 species of tropical plants, making the visit a pleasurable experience whatever the climactic conditions outside
	(b) For bullfight aficionados:  For many foreigners bullfights and Spain rhyme together and Hemingway has much to do with it.  If you are a fan or just plain curious the bullfight arena at Plaza Toros Las Ventas, at 237 Calle de Alcala is worth a visit.  After all it is the third largest bullfight arena in the world, coming after those in Mexico and Venezuela.  The days of "la corrida" are numbered so might as well get the experience when it's still not completely banned (assuming you arrive in Madrid during the season).
In order to see some of the greatest works of Velázquez, Goya, El Greco, Dalí, and Picasso you will have to visit the Prado, the Reina Sofia and the Thyssen

(c) For football fans.  if you are a football fan you should not miss the occasion of visiting the famous santiago bernabeu stadium <a href=http://santiagobernabeu.com/ target=_blank>Official website here but it's in Spanish) belonging to real madrid


FOOD:  how about "pollo asado y sidra" at Casa Mingo which caters to tourists and locals of all ages and backgrounds.  It is at 34, Paseo de la Florida, a short walk from Prícipe Pio underground.  Raving reviews testify to the quality of its chicken and to the affordability of its prices.  It has to be good as it has been around for more than 150 years!  You might also want to try the local dish called "Cocido madrileńo", stewed meat and chickpeaw.  And what about trying out "cochinillo asado" (roasted sucking pig) or "callos a la madrileńa" (tripe in tomato sauce)?  After all Spain is second to none in gastronomy.

TRANSPORT:  Instead of buying single-trip tickets you might as we ll get a Metrobus ticket which, for 9 euros, allows you 10 trips either on bus or on the underground.  But if you are taking public transport during the whole period of your stay you might as well opt for an "abono turistico" or Tourist Travel Pass which allows unlimited travel over the number of days that you paid for.  There is also the Madrid Card for tourists which allows free admission to all museums as well as free trips on the sightseeing bus called Madrid Vision. <a href=http://www.madridcard.com/en/Inicio.aspx target=_blank>Details here.</a>

MARKETS:  Unlike most cities in Europe the markets in Madrid close at 20:00 or so.  The typical indoor market at Plaza de San Miguel near la Plaza Mayor, for example, opens at 9h00 and stays open till 20:15 Mon-Fri though there is a break from 14:30 to 17:15.  The Mercado de la Cebada at Plaza de la Cebada (metro La Latina) opens Mon-Fri 9-14 and again 17.30-20.30 while on Saturdays it's open from 9 to 14.30.  Another interesting covered market is the Mercado de la Paz at 28 Calle de Ayala (metro Serrano).  Here it's closed from 15h to 17.30 No doubt about it, la siesta continues to be a Spanish tradition!

SHOPPING:  There is a unique shopping (or rather anti-shopping) as it is mainly fashion for the young adolescents centre in the Chueca district called Mercado de Fuencarral at Calle de Fuencarral where there is a large concentration of avant-garde shops.  If shopping is the name of your game then get down at metro Barrio del Pilar for La Vaguada shopping gallery, which is home to some 350 stores.  The more conventional shoppers will continue to throng the El Corte Inglés, one of which is conveniently located at the Puerta del Sol.

GOOD TO KNOW:  
Time:  same time as France
Shops are usually open from 10h-14h and again from 17h-20h Mon to Fri and only the morning on Saturdays so plan your day's program accordingly if you are an avid shopper!
Telephone: code is 34 (for Spain) followed by 91 for Madrid
Money:  Euro as Spain is a member of the European Union
Madrid became capital of Spain in 1561 thanks to Philippe II
Bank: most banks open Mon-Fri from 8.30 to 14.00 and some open on Sat mornings.
Upon arrival: Whether you arrive by train or plane (Madrid's airport is at Barajas) you can take Line 8 to go to the city centre.



































</pre>